docs/introduction.rst, before:

===========================================================
 mixpanel-celery - Asynchronous event tracking for Mixpanel
===========================================================

:Version: |release|

Introduction
============

mixpanel-celery helps you use `Celery`_ to asynchronously track your `Mixpanel`_
events. You want to perform your tracking asynchronously, because waiting for HTTP
requests to Mixpanel to complete every time you want to record something important
isn't ideal when you've already worked so hard to tune your performance.

mixpanel-celery works great with Django, but because Celery works with just
python, so does mixpanel-celery.

Installation
============

The easiest way to install the current development version of mixpanel-celery is
via `pip`_

Installing The Stable Version
-----------------------------

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ pip install mixpanel-celery


Running The Test Suite
======================

We use Tox to test across all of our supported environments.

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ pip install tox
    $ tox

If you'd just like to test for the version of python and Celery that you use,
install the appropriate requirements listed in the ``requirements`` folder, and
then run your tests. eg.

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ pip install -r requirements/test_celery_default.txt
    $ pip install -r requirements/test_django_default.txt
    $ python setup.py test

Right now, the test suite requires Django, but we'd love a pull request to
remove that requirement.

It is also possible to run specific tests using ``nosetests`` directly.

Configuration
=============

For easy test usage with Django, set your Mixpanel api token in your project's
``settings.py`` file with the ``MIXPANEL_API_TOKEN`` variable. Then set::

    CELERY_ALWAYS_EAGER = True

So that all of your `Celery`_ tasks will run in-line for now.

.. note::

    Obviously you'll want to actually configure `Celery`_ using one of the
    many available backends for actual production use.
    `Celery`_ has great documentation on that.


With Celery 3.1 and above
-------------------------

If you're not using ``django-celery``,
you must add the ``mixpanel.tasks`` module
to your ``include``.
Otherwise,
Celery won't know about the ``mixpanel-celery`` tasks.

Your configuration should look something like:

.. code-block:: python

    celery = Celery(
        'myproject',
        broker=settings.REDIS_URL,
        include=['myproject.tasks', 'mixpanel.tasks'],
    )

With ``django-celery`` and Celery 3.0 or lower
-----------------------------------------------

If you're using an older version of Celery
along with the now-deprecated combination of
``django-celery`` and a call to ``djcelery.setup_loader()``,
just add ``mixpanel`` to your list of ``INSTALLED_APPS``.


Usage
=====

Basic python example tracking an event called ``my_event``

.. code-block:: python

    from mixpanel.tasks import EventTracker

    result = EventTracker.delay(
        'my_event',
        {'distinct_id': 1},
        token='YOUR_API_TOKEN',
    )
    result.wait()


Example usage in a Django view

.. code-block:: python

    from mixpanel.tasks import EventTracker
    from django.shortcuts import render

    def test_view(request, template='test/test_view.html'):
        """
        Show user a test page.
        """
        # We should record that the user hit this page
        EventTracker.delay('hit_test_view', {'distinct_id': request.user.pk})

        return render(template)


To pass the API key to your templates where you probably use the Mixpanel
Javascript API, add the context_processor to your settings file

.. code-block:: python

    TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS = (
        # ...
        'mixpanel.context_processors.api_key',
        # ...
    )


Now in your templates you can access the API key like this

.. code-block:: javascript

    mixpanel.init("{{ MIXPANEL_API_TOKEN }}");


People Tracker Usage
--------------------

mixpanel-celery also supports the People Tracker API which allows you store
user profiles in `Mixpanel's People Analytics product
<https://mixpanel.com/people/>`__. The API for this is
based on the `Mixpanel JavaScript People API
<https://mixpanel.com/help/reference/javascript#storing-user-profiles>`__.
Three calls are supported at this time: ``set``, ``add``, and ``track_charge``.
The ``add`` command is the ``mixpanel.people.increment`` in the JavaScript API.

To set profile property values using the ``set`` event:

.. code-block:: python

    from mixpanel.tasks import PeopleTracker

    result = PeopleTracker.delay(
        'set',
        {
            'distinct_id': 1,
            'Plan': 'Premium',
            # you can set many properties in one call
            'discount end': '2013-01-01'

        },
        token='YOUR_API_TOKEN',
    )
    result.wait()


The above would set the ``Plan`` property to ``Premium`` for the profile with
the mixpanel distinct id of 1. To increment profile property values using the
``add`` event:

.. code-block:: python

    from mixpanel.tasks import PeopleTracker

    result = PeopleTracker.delay(
        'add',
        {
            'distinct_id': 1,
            # differs for JS API. You must provide
            # an increment value. There is no default
            'games played': 1,
            'points earned: 500,
            # subtract by providing a negative value
            'credits remaining': -34
        },
        token='YOUR_API_TOKEN',
    )
    result.wait()

You can also track charges using the ``track_charge`` event:

.. code-block:: python

    from mixpanel.tasks import PeopleTracker

    result = PeopleTracker.delay(
        'track_charge',
        {
            'distinct_id': 1,
            # this value is required
            'amount': 100,
            # optionally can have other properties
            'order_id': 6543
        },
        token='YOUR_API_TOKEN',
    )
    result.wait()

    result = PeopleTracker.delay(
        'track_charge',
        {
            'distinct_id': 1,
            # use negative value for refund
            'amount': -50,
        },
        token='YOUR_API_TOKEN',
    )
    result.wait()

The ``track_charge`` event differs from the JS API in that you can't override
the time of the transaction.


Building the Documentation
==========================

mixpanel-celery uses `sphinx`_ for documentation. To build the HTML docs

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ pip install sphinx
    $ pip install sphinxtogithub
    $ cd /path/to/mixpanel-celery/docs
    $ make html

Bug Tracker
===========

If you have feedback about bugs, features or anything else, the github issue
tracking is a great place to report them:
http://github.com/winhamwr/mixpanel-celery/issues

License
=======

This software is licensed under the ``New BSD License``. See the ``LICENSE``
file in the top distribution directory for the full license text.

Versioning
==========

This project uses `Semantic Versioning`_.

.. _`Celery`: http://ask.github.com/celery/
.. _`Mixpanel`: http://mixpanel.com/
.. _`sphinx`: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/
.. _`online mixpanel-celery documentation`: http://winhamwr.github.com/mixpanel-celery/
.. _`Semantic Versioning`: http://semver.org/
.. _`pip`: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip
.. _`RabbitMQ`: http://www.rabbitmq.com/

Commit message:

feat(pt): add ignore_time param for PeopleTracker
This feature allows the user to set the '$ignore_time' parameter in the
PeopleTracker per the People HTTP Specification of the Mixpanel REST
API. The user simply includes 'ignore_time' as True/False in their
properties dictionary and it gets converted to '$ignore_time' and
stripped from the properties dictionary. Included are tests and
documentation for this new functionality.

docs/introduction.rst, after:

===========================================================
 mixpanel-celery - Asynchronous event tracking for Mixpanel
===========================================================

:Version: |release|

Introduction
============

mixpanel-celery helps you use `Celery`_ to asynchronously track your `Mixpanel`_
events. You want to perform your tracking asynchronously, because waiting for HTTP
requests to Mixpanel to complete every time you want to record something important
isn't ideal when you've already worked so hard to tune your performance.

mixpanel-celery works great with Django, but because Celery works with just
python, so does mixpanel-celery.

Installation
============

The easiest way to install the current development version of mixpanel-celery is
via `pip`_

Installing The Stable Version
-----------------------------

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ pip install mixpanel-celery


Running The Test Suite
======================

We use Tox to test across all of our supported environments.

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ pip install tox
    $ tox

If you'd just like to test for the version of python and Celery that you use,
install the appropriate requirements listed in the ``requirements`` folder, and
then run your tests. eg.

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ pip install -r requirements/test_celery_default.txt
    $ pip install -r requirements/test_django_default.txt
    $ python setup.py test

Right now, the test suite requires Django, but we'd love a pull request to
remove that requirement.

It is also possible to run specific tests using ``nosetests`` directly.

Configuration
=============

For easy test usage with Django, set your Mixpanel api token in your project's
``settings.py`` file with the ``MIXPANEL_API_TOKEN`` variable. Then set::

    CELERY_ALWAYS_EAGER = True

So that all of your `Celery`_ tasks will run in-line for now.

.. note::

    Obviously you'll want to actually configure `Celery`_ using one of the
    many available backends for actual production use.
    `Celery`_ has great documentation on that.


With Celery 3.1 and above
-------------------------

If you're not using ``django-celery``,
you must add the ``mixpanel.tasks`` module
to your ``include``.
Otherwise,
Celery won't know about the ``mixpanel-celery`` tasks.

Your configuration should look something like:

.. code-block:: python

    celery = Celery(
        'myproject',
        broker=settings.REDIS_URL,
        include=['myproject.tasks', 'mixpanel.tasks'],
    )

With ``django-celery`` and Celery 3.0 or lower
-----------------------------------------------

If you're using an older version of Celery
along with the now-deprecated combination of
``django-celery`` and a call to ``djcelery.setup_loader()``,
just add ``mixpanel`` to your list of ``INSTALLED_APPS``.


Usage
=====

Basic python example tracking an event called ``my_event``

.. code-block:: python

    from mixpanel.tasks import EventTracker

    result = EventTracker.delay(
        'my_event',
        {'distinct_id': 1},
        token='YOUR_API_TOKEN',
    )
    result.wait()


Example usage in a Django view

.. code-block:: python

    from mixpanel.tasks import EventTracker
    from django.shortcuts import render

    def test_view(request, template='test/test_view.html'):
        """
        Show user a test page.
        """
        # We should record that the user hit this page
        EventTracker.delay('hit_test_view', {'distinct_id': request.user.pk})

        return render(template)


To pass the API key to your templates where you probably use the Mixpanel
Javascript API, add the context_processor to your settings file

.. code-block:: python

    TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS = (
        # ...
        'mixpanel.context_processors.api_key',
        # ...
    )


Now in your templates you can access the API key like this

.. code-block:: javascript

    mixpanel.init("{{ MIXPANEL_API_TOKEN }}");


People Tracker Usage
--------------------

mixpanel-celery also supports the People Tracker API which allows you store
user profiles in `Mixpanel's People Analytics product
<https://mixpanel.com/people/>`__. The API for this is
based on the `Mixpanel JavaScript People API
<https://mixpanel.com/help/reference/javascript#storing-user-profiles>`__.
Three calls are supported at this time: ``set``, ``add``, and ``track_charge``.
The ``add`` command is the ``mixpanel.people.increment`` in the JavaScript API.

To set profile property values using the ``set`` event:

.. code-block:: python

    from mixpanel.tasks import PeopleTracker

    result = PeopleTracker.delay(
        'set',
        {
            'distinct_id': 1,
            'Plan': 'Premium',
            # you can set many properties in one call
            'discount end': '2013-01-01'

        },
        token='YOUR_API_TOKEN',
    )
    result.wait()


The above would set the ``Plan`` property to ``Premium`` for the profile with
the mixpanel distinct id of 1. To increment profile property values using the
``add`` event:

.. code-block:: python

    from mixpanel.tasks import PeopleTracker

    result = PeopleTracker.delay(
        'add',
        {
            'distinct_id': 1,
            # differs for JS API. You must provide
            # an increment value. There is no default
            'games played': 1,
            'points earned: 500,
            # subtract by providing a negative value
            'credits remaining': -34
        },
        token='YOUR_API_TOKEN',
    )
    result.wait()

Since some tasks are done separate from user interaction when updating their
associated Person in mixpanel, you can set the ``$ignore_time`` special
property by setting ``'ignore_time'`` to ``True`` in the ``properties``
dictionary:

.. code-block:: python

    from mixpanel.tasks import PeopleTracker

    result = PeopleTracker.delay(
        'set',
        {
            'distinct_id': 1,
            'Plan': 'Premium',
            'ignore_time': True,
        },
        token='YOUR_API_TOKEN',
    )
    result.wait()

This bypasses the automatic re-setting of the "Last Seen" date property on the
Person as described in `Mixpanel's People HTTP Specification
<https://mixpanel.com/docs/people-analytics/people-http-specification-insert-data>`__.

You can also track charges using the ``track_charge`` event:

.. code-block:: python

    from mixpanel.tasks import PeopleTracker

    result = PeopleTracker.delay(
        'track_charge',
        {
            'distinct_id': 1,
            # this value is required
            'amount': 100,
            # optionally can have other properties
            'order_id': 6543
        },
        token='YOUR_API_TOKEN',
    )
    result.wait()

    result = PeopleTracker.delay(
        'track_charge',
        {
            'distinct_id': 1,
            # use negative value for refund
            'amount': -50,
        },
        token='YOUR_API_TOKEN',
    )
    result.wait()

The ``track_charge`` event differs from the JS API in that you can't override
the time of the transaction.


Building the Documentation
==========================

mixpanel-celery uses `sphinx`_ for documentation. To build the HTML docs

.. code-block:: shell-session

    $ pip install sphinx
    $ pip install sphinxtogithub
    $ cd /path/to/mixpanel-celery/docs
    $ make html

Bug Tracker
===========

If you have feedback about bugs, features or anything else, the github issue
tracking is a great place to report them:
http://github.com/winhamwr/mixpanel-celery/issues

License
=======

This software is licensed under the ``New BSD License``. See the ``LICENSE``
file in the top distribution directory for the full license text.

Versioning
==========

This project uses `Semantic Versioning`_.

.. _`Celery`: http://ask.github.com/celery/
.. _`Mixpanel`: http://mixpanel.com/
.. _`sphinx`: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/
.. _`online mixpanel-celery documentation`: http://winhamwr.github.com/mixpanel-celery/
.. _`Semantic Versioning`: http://semver.org/
.. _`pip`: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip
.. _`RabbitMQ`: http://www.rabbitmq.com/
